---
title: Building an online portfolio with Next.js & deploy to Now.sh
date: 2019-02-10T09:14:12.378Z
description: >-
  Hello! In this first blog post I am going to share with you how this site was
  build. I hope some of you out there may find this article helpful, especially
  those who are actually planning to learn Next.js.
---
<p><em>Hello! In this first blog post I am going to share with you how this site was build. I hope some of you out there may find this article helpful, especially those who are actually planning to learn Next.js.</em></p>

<p>I'll be honest, I <strong>spent 2 months trying to decide what framework I should use</strong> to build my portfolio site &amp; spent 1 week on how I want it to look like. <em>It was tough, I created and deleted repos, many have sacrifice themselves to the Github lords. Until one day, I felt...........what's <strong>Next</strong>?</em> (pun intended)</p>

<p>So this site is built with <a href="https://nextjs.org">Next.js</a>, which is a <strong>React Framework that supports server side rendering</strong> (SSR). Reason why I am using Next.js is because recently I was tasked by my company to rebased their whole SPA client app into a Universal App (which basically involves SSR). In result, this will <strong>improve the app's performance &amp; is more SEO friendly</strong>. Next.js is kind of advanced, so for those who are kind of new to React, I suggest having a good sense of how React works first, before diving into Next.js</p>

<p>Anyway, for the blog engine, I am using <a>ButterCMS</a>'s blog engine. They have good support &amp; pricing for their plans. I am currently on the Personal Plan. This is actually the first CMS I've ever integrated with so I can't give any comparisons. I'll leave that up to you.</p>

<h3>Tech Stack:</h3>

<ol>

<li>I started this build using <a href="https://github.com/segmentio/create-next-app">Create-Next-App</a>. It gives you a starter tree of Next.js Framework.</li>

<li>For CSS framework I use <a href="https://react.semantic-ui.com/">React Semantic UI</a>. I did a little custom overrides here and there to make it unique to my style.</li>

<li>I have reusable components built whenever I need to set a template.&nbsp;</li>

<li>I use <a target="_blank" rel="noopener">ButterCMS</a> for my blog. ButterCMS has a good free plan &amp; a good blog engine.</li>

<li>I have a custom Express server to use for development. I use it solely for URL masking. I don't deploy it with production build however, find out <a href="https://zeit.co/guides/custom-next-js-server-to-routes/">why</a>.</li>

<li>I deploy my site on <a href="https://now.sh">Now.sh</a> . They have a very good Free Plan. Their Premium Plan is not bad too. My portfolio isn't really scalable on it's own but I will use it on my next projects.</li>

</ol>

<p>If you have anymore questions, hit me up <a href="https://aminroslan.com/contact">here</a>!</p>
